Address to the UN General Assembly (September 27, 2012) - Benjamin Netanyahu
"The Red Line Speech"

Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's a pleasure to see the General Assembly presided by the Ambassador from Israel, and it's good to see all of you, distinguished delegates.

Ladies and gentlemen,
Three thousand years ago, King David reigned over the Jewish state in our eternal capital, Jerusalem. I say that to all those who proclaim that the Jewish state has no roots in our region and that it will soon disappear. Throughout our history, the Jewish people have overcome all the tyrants who have sought our destruction. From the Babylonians and the Romans to the Spanish Inquisition and the Nazis – empires have risen and fallen, but the Jewish people remain.

We are an ancient people, but we are also a modern nation. Israel stands proudly with the forces of modernity. We protect the rights of all our citizens: men and women, Jews and Arabs, Muslims and Christians – all are equal before the law.

I speak to you today about the great battle being waged between the modern and the medieval. The forces of modernity seek a bright future... The forces of medievalism seek a world in which women and minorities are subjugated, in which knowledge is suppressed, and in which not life but death is glorified. These forces clash around the globe, but nowhere more starkly than in the Middle East.

...

The greatest danger facing our world is the coupling of militant Islam with nuclear weapons. To imagine what the world would be like with a nuclear Iran, imagine what the world would be like with a nuclear al-Qaida. There's no difference.

Given this record of Iranian aggression without nuclear weapons, just imagine an Iran with nuclear weapons. Who among you would feel safe in the Middle East? Who'd be safe in Europe? Who'd be safe in America? Who'd be safe anywhere?

Deterrence won't work with Iran... The hour is getting late, very late. It's not only my right to speak, it's my duty to speak.

Red lines don't lead to war; red lines prevent war. History – with its terrible death toll from the Holocaust and World War II – would have been much different had a red line been set against Germany's Adolf Hitler in the 1930s.

[Netanyahu displays a diagram of a bomb]

This is a bomb. This is a fuse. In the case of Iran's nuclear plans to build a bomb, this bomb has to be filled with enough enriched uranium. And Iran has to go through three stages.
The first stage: they have to enrich enough of low enriched uranium. The second stage: they have to enrich enough medium enriched uranium. And the third stage and final stage: is to enrich enough high enriched uranium for the first bomb.

Where is Iran? Iran has completed the first stage... and they are well into the second stage. By next spring, at most by next summer at current enrichment rates, they will have finished the medium enrichment and move on to the final stage. From there, it's only a few months, possibly a few weeks, before they get enough enriched uranium for the first bomb.

The red line should be drawn right here. Before Iran completes the second stage of nuclear enrichment necessary to make a bomb.

I believe that faced with a clear red line, Iran will back down. This will give more time for sanctions and diplomacy to convince Iran to dismantle its nuclear weapons programme altogether.

We say in Hebrew: Am Yisrael Chai. The people of Israel live. And the Jewish state will live forever.
